[thunder rumbling]
[Tim] They're on a direct course
to Skull Island.
[Keiko] She followed her egg this far.
She's not gonna stop now.
Man. you gotta give
Apex Cybernetics credit.
They really know how to dangle
what you want in front of you.
Except this isn't Apex.
Apex is denying any part of this.
Who is it. then? Who has the resources
to pull off something like this?
Other than Monarch and Apex.
who even knows
where the hell Skull Island is?
I don't know. [sighs]
But we are tracking an unauthorized
aircraft in the airspace of Skull Island.
And you're sure Cate and Kentaro
are on it?
We picked up a couple of Trissop's men
on the beach.
They said both Cate and Kentaro
went with their team.
[Lee] Yeah. well. we saw that.
But did they leave with them
or were they taken by them?
[crew member]
We're coming up on the storm wall.
[growling]
[roaring]
All right. big boy.
Time to finish the job.
They're just sitting there.
I thought Godzilla was ready to take on
any Titan that dared to show its face.
Well. he is. Usually.
Is he afraid of Kong?
Godzilla's not afraid of anything.
What if he did what he needed to do?
You said Godzilla's role
is to enforce order among the Titans.
As far as we know.
Godzilla might have been making sure
it went back to where it's supposed to be.
It didn't kill it
because it didn't need to.
Well. he knows more
about his own kind than we do.
So much for my plan.
Here's what we're gonna do. Get Barris
and the fleet commander on the line.
Tell them to track Godzilla
as far as they can.
We're gonna hold position here.
[Lee] What about Titan X?
Whoever lured that thing back here
can still do whatever they had in mind.
Control it. weaponize it.
Cate and Kentaro are there too.
I think we have a new mission.
Get Cate and Kentaro.
and figure out
a way to send that Titan home.
Lee is right.
We need to go back.
Well. I love it.
Let's. uh. rig the ship
and batten hatches or whatever you do.
We're going in.
[radio chatter]
Incredible. isn't it?
So are you going to tell me
what we're doing here?
'Cause someone I trusted once told me
that everything on this island
is trying to kill you.
And you didn't listen.
Not then. not now.
You could have stayed behind.
I'm not letting you go alone.
It's my choice. and I'm not alone.
What exactly are you
planning to do with the egg?
Kentaro. what has she talked you into?
Why do you assume
she talked me into anything?
We're here.
You really think stealing her offspring
is gonna do anything but enrage her?
It's... It's inhumane.
Inhumane?
You keep forgetting they're not human.
Why are you helping these people?
Why are you on their side?
Mmm.
The signal's still strong on Titan X.
As long as the batteries hold out.
we should be good.
What do we need a tracker for?
It's pretty obvious where it's going.
We can just follow its path.
Have you been to Skull Island before?
'Cause I have.
You're gonna be
so worried about being ripped up
into a million little pieces.
you're not gonna know which way is up.
So. yeah.
Yeah. we need the tracker.
What about Kong?
Well. once he finds out
that Titan X is on his island.
he's gonna come running.
And he's got a pretty big stride.
so he could be here any minute.
The only thing we can do
is get in and out as fast as we can.
Let's find out where
they're leading Titan X.
- and then get it back to Axis Mundi...
- Her back.
Her back to Axis Mundi where she belongs.
Good? Try not to die.
Yes. sir.
[sighs]
You find anything in there yet that
can help us send that Titan back home?
I think so. I mean. Billy had these
images from something called Landsat?
- Landsat?
- Do you know it?
No. no. wait a minute.
That's. like. an early Earth imaging
satellite network from. like. the '60s.
Oh. well. Billy thought Titan X's
migratory route ended on Skull Island.
If he was right and Skull Island is where
Titan X goes in and out of Axis Mundi.
there has to be a naturally occurring
stable rift somewhere here.
Billy marked all of these sites
as possible rifts.
so one of them
could be Titan X's way home.
Could be. Let's start here.
see where it takes us.
Okay. [sighs]
[sighs]
- [thunder rumbles]
- [rain patters]
[Billy] This is huge. Kei!
- I know. I still can't believe it.
- Confirmation of a rift?
This means the Titan network
might actually exist.
- Yes.
- Who knows where it could lead to?
Hello. is anyone home?
[Billy] This changes everything.
It does.
I'm so happy for you.
For us.
Yes. for us.
- Open up in there. [chuckles]
- [chuckles]
What the bloody hell do you want?
We wanna get married.
- So. you got rings?
- Uh. it's a bit spur-of-the-moment.
- So. you know...
- Probes.
Sorry?
Probes. We need to send something
down the rift. see where it goes.
Zook built that Titan
tracking device. remember?
- With the multiband radio transmitter?
- Yes.
- I bet we could adapt it to...
- Billy. we're getting married right now.
- We are. aren't we? Yeah.
- Yeah.
Sometime today
if it's not too much trouble.
- Yes.
- Sorry.
Okay. So. do you. Miss Keiko Miura. take...
Uh. it's. "Dr. Keiko Miura."
Do you take this man. uh. William Randa.
to be your husband?
I think...
- Oh. yeah. let's... Okay.
- Hey.
Yeah. um. hi.
Billy. I never thought
that I would find someone
who dreams as big as I do.
Someone who sees the world the way I do.
full of possibility and magic.
I promise to always believe in you
and your crazy ideas.
I love you.
And. uh...
[gasps] Oh. I do.
- [chuckles]
- Yeah.
Good. And do you. William Randa.
take Dr. Keiko Miura
to be your wife?
It's not fair. I did...
I didn't prepare anything.
It's okay.
Um...
I don't have any words.
[official] "Yes" will do. mate.
Yes. yes. of course I do.
- [official] Right.
- Yeah.
Then by the power invested in me
by Her Majesty's government of Australia.
I do pronounce you man and doctor wife.
[chuckles]
- [official] Kiss the bride.
- Okay. well.
- This is a Monarch base?
- Was.
They abandoned it after some early issues
with operational security.
So Monarch couldn't keep their
people safe. but you think you can?
Are you trying to kill her
to get revenge for Dad?
- This isn't about revenge.
- Then what's it about?
- I'll show you.
- I was talking to my brother.
- Welcome back. Ms. Simmons.
- Thank you. What's our status?
Titan X is approximately
12 kilometers away.
It's headed straight for us.
You were right
about using the egg as bait.
We have Kentaro to thank for that.
We don't wanna kill it.
We need it to open a rift.
You can't open a rift.
You don't know what'll come out of there
or who's gonna fall into it.
Your grandfather discovered rifts
all over the globe.
In fact. he theorized that there's
another rift somewhere on this island.
A central hub that could take you
anywhere in the Titan network.
What we need is to open a stable rift
for an indefinite period of time.
That's why we need to find this one.
It's our way into Axis Mundi.
Why would you possibly wanna go there?
That's exactly the reaction people had
when NASA proposed going to the moon.
The astronauts didn't come home
to discover that it was 60 years later
and everyone they loved was dead.
Exactly. But think about if they had.
I mean. right?
What if you had. say. a terminal illness
and you could go someplace
for a week or a month
and come back and there was a cure.
What if you could visit the future?
You wanna exploit Axis Mundi
as your personal time machine?
Kentaro. please. I know how you feel.
that you wanna do something.
that you need to do something.
That's how I felt
when I pushed that button.
but I was wrong.
I had no idea what I was gonna unleash
and I should have listened to you and Dad.
Don't make the same mistake I did.
Whatever this is.
it's not gonna bring Dad back.
[May] We're still heading this way.
It's keeping the same pace.
[device beeping]
You never told me how you managed
to get the tracking device on Titan X.
Very carefully.
Actually. I didn't remember myself.
until just recently.
I don't understand.
Neither do I.
Neither does Suzuki. entirely.
Some bizarre science that you
might understand. but hell if I do.
Oh. Try me.
I'll try later.
Oh. shit.
You guys good? It was just...
This place kind of sucks. right?
[chuckles] Imagine what's beneath.
This place has nothing on Axis Mundi.
[Tim] I was on this island almost two
years. never even got to leave the base.
[baby voice]
"I was on this island for two years.
and I never got to leave this base."
- Shut up.
- [operative grunts]
- What was that?
- Hadley?
- Where's Hadley?
- [chittering]
- [screaming]
- [gunfire]
- Run!
- [Tim] Go. go. go. go. go. go!
[operative 2] Move! Keep up!
[all clamoring]
[creatures shrieking]
[operative 2] Keep up. Move!
[operative 3] I don't see it!
[screams]
- [Tim] Shit!
- [operative 4] Keep moving!
[Lee] Spread out! Scatter!
[screaming]
- Go! Go!
- [screaming]
Oh. God.
- Tim! No! Help!
- May! May!
Help! No!
[screaming]
- [screaming]
- [groaning]
No! [groaning]
- [screaming]
- I got you.
[operative 2] Let's move! We gotta go!
- Let's move!
- [operative 5] Move! Move!
- [May] Wait. Get my shoe.
- [Tim] I got it.
Okay. easy.
Tim. do you copy?
Monarch ground team. do you copy? Anybody?
- [radio beeps]
- [Tim] We've got four tactical down.
What's your location? [distorted speech]
...downstream.
Say again. are you heading east. Tim?
Tim. are you moving east? Do you copy?
This goddamn island.
Okay. All right.
Do you really believe that that rift
of Billy's is here somewhere nearby?
We know he circled the globe
looking for rifts.
Something compelled him to come here.
If we can find it.
maybe we can send Titan X home.
Okay. We'll stick with it.
Divide and conquer.
They've got that tracker.
They'll find Titan X.
Let's see if we can find Billy's rift
while we still got time.
You know. when it gets here
you can't just find a rift and jump in.
Actually. we're working on an entry craft.
Cate. you're not the expert here.
You don't know what's going on.
Yeah. I don't know. I'm not a physicist.
I'm just a science teacher.
but I know that there's
no such thing as a time machine.
I know that you can't change the past
no matter how much we want to.
Dad wouldn't wanna see us this way.
He wouldn't want anyone else to get hurt.
- Not for his sake.
- [Isabel] She's right.
What we're doing is crazy risky
and it could totally blow up in our faces.
If you wanna go home. Kentaro.
you should go home.
Be with your family.
Frankly. I'm envious that you
have somebody who cares so much.
Really. take the chopper.
The Monarch ship is just off the shore.
I don't want anyone else to get hurt.
So go.
Kentaro.
Escort Ms. Randa to the helicopter.
- Yes. ma'am.
- Kentaro. please.
- Kentaro. Don't do this!
- Hey. come with us.
[Cate] She's trying to use you!
It's okay if you have doubts.
[Cate] Get off me! Kentaro!
I'm fine.
It's almost time.
What's the story. Cutler?
At its current speed.
Titan X is approximately 12 minutes away.
- And Kong?
- Shit. he's on the move again.
- Where? Headed towards us?
- No. Southeast.
- He could've detected Titan X.
- Could have or did?
Maybe.
W-Well. he's headed in that direction.
- Okay. Well. give him a distraction.
- Copy.
I wanna show you something.
Polly. play the Skullcrawler.
Bring on the distraction.
[shrieking plays through speakers]
- [creature roaring]
- [thudding]
[roars]
Shit. Is that Kong?
Yeah.
[pants] What does the tracker say?
Uh... Signal's still strong.
Hmm. Says the Titan's going this way.
Sir. we already lost half the team.
We should consider
heading back to the beach.
- Rearm. regroup...
- No. What about Cate and Kentaro?
Colonel Shaw and Dr. Randa
- are still up ahead somewhere.
- If they're still alive.
- Excuse me?
- Hey!
If they are still alive. which they are.
they would stay on mission.
And so are we.
Now. Kong. he's on his way.
So we need to pick up the pace.
and we are not leaving anyone else behind.
Is that clear?
- Yes. sir.
- That's clear?
- Yes? Okay. great.
[whistles]
Sorry for being a dick.
but it feels good to be in charge.
[Isabel] This way.
This is it. This is our Cape Canaveral.
This is where we'll launch our mission.
Are you thinking
about what your sister said?
Listen. I know that I don't have
my father's resources behind me. okay?
I have my trust fund
and a group of extremely smart people
who believe that we can do this.
and now I have you.
[Kentaro] See. I'm still not sure
what I bring to the party.
Do you know why NASA chose Neil Armstrong
to be the first one to step on the moon?
Because he was the best pilot?
They were all the best pilots.
They knew that whoever they chose
to take those first steps
would become the most famous person
in the world.
Maybe the most famous person in history.
It was never about
choosing the best person.
It was about choosing the right person.
You are Kentaro Randa.
Bill and Keiko Randa's grandson.
Hiroshi Randa's son.
You are the right person.
There is one thing we need to do first.
We can't set up a base here
with Kong roaming the island.
I thought we were gonna distract him.
- keep him busy.
- How long do you think we can do that?
That's why we brought Titan X here.
I thought we needed it to open a rift.
We do.
and then we need it to take out Kong.
- Take out Kong? That's impossible.
- Mm-hmm.
- It's necessary.
- You can't kill Kong.
Why? Because he can't be killed.
or because you don't want him to be?
You didn't tell me
this was part of the plan.
- I know. and I apologize.
- Why did you lie to me?
Because I-I was scared.
I-I...
I was afraid that if I told you the truth.
you would say no
and then I would have to do
all of this by myself.
Kentaro. you know how important this is.
[distant roaring]
It's here.
- Okay. we should watch this from inside.
- No.
I need to see this. Stay with me.
Prepare to execute.
Get off me! Get... Get your hands off me!
[Cutler] All personnel.
report back to base. Stage one has begun.
Repeat. stage one has begun.
All right. all stations. all stations.
Let's go. Let's go.
It's right now or never.
All stations. stand by to execute.
Hold for my command.
Wait. not yet.
[pilot]
Outpost 18. we're clear for takeoff.
[pilot] Hey! Wait! What are you doing?
Now.
Execute.
[roaring]
We did it.
Oh. my God. We did it!
[laughs] It's ours.
That narrow valley.
It's like this feature right here.
That's it. All right. if we follow that
we should come to the place
- that Billy marked there.
- All right.
- [Lee shushes]
- [distant chatter]
[researcher] Site Two doesn't check out
either. We're on scene and there's no sign
- of a rift or...
- [Isabel] Return to base immediately.
[researcher] Uh. we haven't checked out
the third site yet.
[Isabel]
It'll have to wait. Phase Two is a go.
- Repeat. Phase Two is a go.
- R-Roger. roger that.
All right. you heard the boss.
Come on. shit's getting real.
- [car doors slam]
- [engines rev]
[researcher 2] Let's go!
- [Keiko] Who are they?
- They're not Monarch.
And they sure don't look like Apex.
I think they must be with
whoever has Cate and Kentaro.
- Then what's Phase Two?
- Not good.
They're buggin' out in a hurry.
[sighs] They must be looking for the rift.
Obviously we're not the only ones
that think Billy was on to something.
Okay. where to now?
Kei?
I still don't understand.
What was Billy on to?
It's... It's not in his journal.
He's already marked
half a dozen rifts and...
- What was so important about this place?
- You know how he was. I mean...
I thought I did.
But he left Hiroshi. and he came here.
Something was different.
What changed after I was gone?
What changed. Kei? After we lost you?
[scoffs] Everything changed.
Everything.
[Keiko] No. don't drop me!
[Lee] We're too heavy! Give me your hand!
[Billy] I can't hold on!
[Lee] Reach. Kei! Reach!
[Keiko screams]
[Lee] Train leaves in ten minutes.
We gotta go.
[indistinct PA announcement]
- We gotta go.
- I'm not leaving without her.
[sighs]
She's gone.
- You don't know that.
- I do know that.
You're gonna have to start
coming to terms with reality.
Those things. they were just...
If the returns from the seismic chargers
accurately reflect voids
beneath the surface. she could have found
- a space to shelter in...
- Oh. Billy. Stop. Jesus Christ. stop!
[clears throat]
I-I couldn't hold on. Lee.
I-I tried to. but...
I let her go.
You didn't listen to me.
I told her not to go.
Why didn't you listen to me?
- I'm sorry. Lee.
- It's too late for that now.
And it's gonna haunt us
for the rest of our lives.
[train horn blowing]
We didn't know that this anesthetic agent
would even work on a Titan nervous system.
so we don't know how much time we have
until it wears off.
What if it doesn't wanna fight Kong?
You saw it take on Godzilla at the beach.
didn't you?
It was protecting its egg.
And now you sound like your sister.
Anything can be driven to fight
if it has the proper incentive.
Brenda's project failed. but it proved
we can tap into their nervous systems.
But instead of trying
to reduce their aggressions.
we're going to ramp it off the charts.
Don't have any empathy
for these creatures. Kentaro.
They don't have any for you
and they didn't have any for your father.
- [Cutler] Control Center to Simmons.
- I'm here.
Cate Randa escaped.
She didn't get on the chopper.
She's loose on the base.
- [Cate pants]
- Started with the cells. Both are clear.
- [radio chatter]
- [guards speaking indistinctly]
Ms. Simmons.
Ms. Simmons!
We found this.
It was implanted in the Titan.
It looks like some kind of tracker.
[exhales] It should be getting close.
You want it in klicks or...?
- Shit.
- What?
What is... I don't know.
I think we lost the signal.
- Does the receiver still work?
- I don't know. It's stopped. uh...
It stopped transmitting.
Okay. So. which way is up?
- [radio feedback whines]
- [Cate. distorted] Is anyone out there?
We're out of range of Outpost 18.
- But it is a Monarch frequency.
- You need to turn it down.
- No. you need to listen.
- Something out here is gonna hear us.
- You need to turn it down.
- Yeah. that's the point.
- It's a radio. Somebody's there. give...
- [Cate] Hello?
- Hello?
- Huh? Can you hear me?
- Yeah. Cate. Hey.
- May? Is that you?
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
We-we're. we're coming to you.
No. no. no. no.
No. no. get off the island.
They have the Titan.
What do you mean? Is Kentaro with you?
- Kentaro is with them.
- What do you mean? With who?
- Who? Who is he with?
- Isabel Simmons.
- She has an entire base here.
- I knew that she was up to something.
- Uh. uh. the base.
- What... What kind of base? Where?
- [thudding at door]
It's an old Monarch base.
She's luring the Titan here.
- I have to go.
- [thudding continues]
- There's a valley. Find the valley.
- Wait. Cate.
Cate!
What does she... An old Monarch base.
Does that mean anything to you?
Yeah.
Yeah. all right. uh. let's roll.
We gotta get there before Kong does.
- Let's go!
- Copy that!
How much farther?
Well. the next site he marked
would be right ahead.
Jesus.
What is this place?
Some kind of slaughterhouse.
Oh. man.
Something very. very bad went down here.
What is that?
Billy.
This was Billy's.
I think this is where he died.
Kei.
[sobs]
Goddamn you. Billy!
I trusted you.
I believed in you.
and you threw it all away for what?
All these points
are collections of energy.
I call them rifts. all right?
They're cross-circuited
quantum entanglements
that I believe are somehow connected.
allowing the creatures that exist here
- to traverse...
- [student] Creatures?
What. like Bigfoot?
- Why not?
- [students chuckling]
You know. many folkloric tales
are based in fact.
And so what if our friend. Mr. Bigfoot.
could move freely through the system.
popping out at any stop along the line?
Like a subway?
- Exactly. Like a subway.
- [door opens. closes]
And like a subway. once you go in.
you could...
pass through it and come out somewhere.
I. uh...
- That's all for today. Class dismissed.
- [door closes]
Wait. wait. wait. wait.
- Here. I'll take it.
- I've made you dozens.
- Have you retrieved any of them?
- It just means I need to keep trying.
- The map isn't complete.
- It's time to admit
that the data
does not support your theory.
You can't prove something doesn't exist.
- We're only limited by our imagination...
- Stop!
Perhaps we both should have imagined less.
Maybe then Keiko and Lee
would still be with us.
- Just give it to me!
- Billy!
What are you doing? Stop.
- Go home to your son.
- I can't.
Yet.
And our work isn't done.
Don't ignore the family you have.
chasing the one that you lost.
So the last spot he marked
should be just ahead.
- Kei. I'm just saying...
- Let's just finish this.
- ...you can't know what's in Billy's head.
Let's just find Cate and Kentaro
and get off this island.
[sighs] Well. this is it.
This was the last spot
he marked on his map.
But he died before he could check it out.
At least it's pretty.
- Kei...
- I just don't need a pep talk right now.
No. wasn't gonna give you one.
Kei. what... What is that? Right...
- What?
- Right there. What is that?
[Keiko grunts]
This is Suzuki-sensei's work.
Yeah. it's just like the one
we saw at his home on Hateruma.
Yeah.
So. I guess Billy brought it with him
when he came here?
Wait a minute. Look. there's another one.
Look at this. Kei. Huh.
And another one. and a... [chuckles]
Well. he brought enough of 'em.
[Keiko stammers]
Unless he didn't bring them.
Probes.
Billy wanted to send down probes. Wait.
Look.
"William Randa. 1966. Madagascar?"
[grunts]
"1971. New Guinea."
"1968. Loch Ness."
"1972. Kazakhstan."
He went back.
He was chucking them into the rifts
all over the world.
- They all came out here.
- Billy's rift.
Kei. we... we found it. This is it.
This is Grand Central Station.
[both laughing]
[Keiko] Oh. Billy.
Wait. There's something in here.
Yeah. this one too.
"Keiko...
I didn't have the words when it mattered.
- but I hope you hear them now."
- [Billy] I hope you hear them now.
[sobs]
[Billy]
That you could possibly be in love with me
lies beyond all logic.
I vow to love you in this world
or any other.
No matter where this love takes us.
I'll follow you to the ends of the earth
and beyond.
You found me. Billy.
He was looking for me the whole time.
That's why he came here to find a rift.
to find me.
- Wow.
- And he never gave up on me. [chuckles]
[Keiko sobs]
Clarence. talk to me.
The anesthetic is wearing off.
All right. this is it.
Have you found Cate yet?
No. not yet. But trust me. we will.
Listen. right now we need to stay focused.
We only get one shot at this.
Are you with me?
Yeah.
[growling]
[roaring]
Massive neural activity in Titan X.
It's waking up.
- Are the implants online?
- Yes. ma'am.
- The system is charged and ready to fire.
- Let's see if we can motivate it.
- Initiate.
- Initiating now.
[squealing]
[roars]
[Titan X shrieking]
[distant roaring]
I think we're running out of time.
We gotta find a way
to get Titan X into this rift.
[panting]
Synaptic connection is stable.
[all murmuring]
Kentaro?
- [footsteps approaching]
- [Titan X shrieking]
[Kentaro] You shouldn't
have gotten off that helicopter.
There's a rampaging Titan
on the other side of this door.
I know. And we can do something about it.
We can give her baby back.
And then what? It just takes it
and goes back where it came from?
Yes. that's what should've happened
if we hadn't interfered.
If I hadn't interfered.
I did this.
I let the genie out of the bottle.
- Help me put it back.
- Cate. you can't.
Kentaro...
But what you said before.
about Dad not wanting to see us like this.
that's why I'm doing this.
It's why I don't care what happens
to Titan X or Kong.
- What are you talking about?
- Dad. He doesn't have to die.
We can save him.